.TH fpsonar 1 "9 July 2026" "Free Pascal" "Object Pascal static analyzer"
.SH NAME
fpsonar \- The Free Pascal Object Pascal static analyzer (linter).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fpsonar analyze
[options] <path...>
.br
.B fpsonar baseline
[options] [\-o file] <path...>
.br
.B fpsonar init\-config
[\-o file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fpsonar
is a static analyzer for Object Pascal (Free Pascal / Lazarus), also known as a
linter. It reads source code
.I "without compiling or running it"
and reports issues \- confusing names, risky patterns, structural metrics and
style that does not match a project's conventions.
.PP
Each finding is reported on a single line, giving the file, the line and column,
a severity, the name of the rule that fired and a short explanation. At the end
of a run
.B fpsonar
prints a one\-line summary of the number of files analyzed and the number of
issues found.
.PP
.B fpsonar
belongs to the
.I fcl\-sonar
package and is built on the
.I fcl\-passrc
Pascal parser and resolver. 

.SH COMMANDS
The first non\-option argument is the command.
.TP
.B analyze
Report issues (the default flow). Combined with
.B \-\-new\-code
it reports and gates only issues that are absent from the given baseline;
combined with
.B \-\-baseline
it reports all issues but excludes those already present in the baseline from
the quality gate.
.TP
.B baseline
Write a snapshot of the current effective issue fingerprints to the file given
with
.B \-\-output
(or standard output). No quality gate is evaluated. The snapshot is later fed
back with
.B \-\-new\-code
or
.B \-\-baseline .
.TP
.B init\-config
Write a complete JSON configuration listing every rule with its default enabled
state and severity, and \- for rules that have tunable parameters \- a
.I params
block showing each parameter at its built\-in default. The gate policy is
included as well. The output goes to the file given with
.B \-\-output
(or standard output). Edit it to taste and pass it back with
.B \-\-config .

.SH TARGETS
A target passed to
.B analyze
or
.B baseline
may be:
.TP
.B a source file
A
.IR .pas ", " .pp " or " .lpr
file.
.TP
.B a directory
Expanded recursively; every
.IR .pas ", " .pp " and " .lpr
file below it is analyzed.
.TP
.B a project
A Lazarus
.I .lpi
project or
.I .lpk
package; its compiler settings are read and its units analyzed.
.PP
Several targets may be listed on one command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-\-define " D ", \-d" D
Add a conditional define.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mode " M ", \-M" M
Set the compiler mode (e.g. OBJFPC, DELPHI).
.TP
.BI "\-Fu" path
Add a unit search path.
.TP
.BI "\-Fi" path
Add an include search path.
.TP
.BI "\-\-cpu " C
Set the target CPU (e.g. x86_64).
.TP
.BI "\-\-os " O
Set the target OS (e.g. linux).
.TP
.BI "\-\-project " f ", \-p " f
Load a
.IR .lpi ", " .lpk " or " fpc.cfg
project file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-format " fmt ", \-f " fmt
Report format:
.B text
(default),
.B sarif
or
.BR sonar\-json .
.TP
.BI "\-\-output " f ", \-o " f
Write the report to a file (default: standard output).
.TP
.BI "\-\-config " f ", \-c " f
Load a JSON configuration (rule set plus quality\-gate thresholds).
.TP
.BI "\-\-new\-code " f
For
.BR analyze :
report and gate only issues absent from baseline
.IR f .
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-baseline .
.TP
.BI "\-\-baseline " f
For
.BR analyze :
report all issues but mute (exclude from the gate) those already in baseline
.IR f .
Muted issues are annotated with their suppression source. Mutually exclusive
with
.BR \-\-new\-code .
.TP
.B \-\-real\-rtl
Resolve the RTL chain (System/SysUtils/Classes) against the real FPC source
first, falling back to synthetic stubs. Honours the
.BR \-\-cpu / \-\-os / \-Fu / \-Fi
overrides. The default is synthetic stubs.
.TP
.B \-\-synthetic\-only
Resolve every
.I uses
clause against the host\-independent synthetic RTL only. This opts out of the
default auto\-detection, which generates a faithful interface stub on demand from
the matching
.I .ppu
via
.BR ppudump (1)
(cached) and falls back to synthetic. Use for deterministic,
FPC\-version\-independent runs.
.TP
.BI "\-\-ppu\-cache " dir
Keep the on\-demand
.BR ppudump (1)
stubs in
.I dir
permanently (default: per\-run temporary files, discarded at exit). Entries are
keyed by each
.IR .ppu 's
size and modification time and refreshed when it changes. No effect under
.BR \-\-synthetic\-only .
.TP
.B "\-\-help, \-h"
Show a short help text and exit.
.PP
The
.BR \-Fu / \-Fi / \-d / \-M
flags accept both the glued (\fB\-FuX\fR) and the separated (\fB\-Fu X\fR) forms.

.SH SUPPRESSING FINDINGS
An individual finding can be silenced by adding a
.B // NOSONAR
comment to the offending line. Whole classes of findings can be silenced from
the configuration file through its
.I suppressions
globs, which match on rule id and/or file path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success \- the quality gate passed.
.TP
.B 1
The quality gate failed (configured severity or total thresholds exceeded).
.TP
.B 2
A usage error (e.g. an unknown option, a missing value, or an unreadable
configuration or baseline file).
.PP
By default the gate fails only when a
.B blocker
or
.B critical
issue is present; all other severities are reported but do not fail the gate.
These limits are adjustable in the configuration file.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration is a JSON file passed with
.BR \-\-config .
It has an optional
.I rules
object (per\-rule
.IR enabled ", " severity " and " params ),
an optional
.I gate
object (\fImaxBlocker\fR, \fImaxCritical\fR, \fImaxMajor\fR, \fImaxMinor\fR,
\fImaxInfo\fR, \fImaxTotal\fR; \fB\-1\fR means unlimited on that axis), an
optional
.I suppressions
array and an optional
.I useTier
object. Unknown keys are ignored for forward compatibility. A ready\-to\-edit
file containing every rule can be produced with
.BR "fpsonar init\-config" .

.SH EXAMPLES
Analyze a single unit:
.PP
.RS
.B fpsonar analyze myunit.pas
.RE
.PP
Analyze a tree, writing a SARIF report:
.PP
.RS
.B fpsonar analyze src/ \-\-format sarif \-o report.sarif
.RE
.PP
Analyze a Lazarus project with extra unit paths and a define:
.PP
.RS
.B fpsonar analyze myproject.lpi \-Mobjfpc \-dDEBUG \-Fu/path/to/units
.RE
.PP
Generate a configuration, edit it, and use it:
.PP
.RS
.B fpsonar init\-config \-o myrules.json
.br
.B fpsonar analyze src/ \-\-config myrules.json
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fpc (1),
.BR ppudump (1),
.BR fpdoc (1)

.SH AUTHOR
fpsonar was written by Michael Van Canneyt.
.PP
This manual page is part of the Free Pascal
.I fcl\-sonar
package.
