.TH pas2jni 1 "12 Dec 1999" "Free Pascal" "Free Pascal Java Native Interface generation tool"
.SH NAME
pas2jni - Free Pascal Java Native Interface generation tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pas2jni
[\fIoptions\fR] \fI<unit> \fR[\fI<unit2> <unit3> \fR...]

Generate a Java native interface description and library from compiled Free Pascal units.
pas2jni generates per unit 2 files: a library that provides access to the functions and 
procedures in the pascal unit in a manner that Java understands, and a .java file that 
describes the library, and can be used to access the libary from Java.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-U<path> 
Unit search path, semicolon delimited. Wildcards are allowed.
.TP
.B \-L<name> 
Set output library name. By default, this is the name of the unit followed by 'jni'.
.TP
.B \-P<name> 
Set Java package name. This is by default 'pas'. 
.TP
.B \-O<path> 
Set output path for Pascal files. This is the current directory, by default.
.TP
.B \-J<path> 
Set output path for Java files. By default, this is 'pas'.
.TP
.B \-D<prog> 
Set full path to the "ppudump" program. The ppudump program is needed to analyse the contents of the unit files.
.TP
.B \-I<list> 
Include the list of specified objects in the output. 
The list is semicolon delimited. 
To read this list from a file use \fB\-I\fR@<file>
.TP
.B \-E <list> 
Exclude the list of specified objects from the output. The list is
semicolon delimited. To read this list from a file use \fB\-E\fR@<file>
.TP
.B -?
Show a help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following will create a file
.I pas/getopts.java 
and a library file
.I getoptsjni.pas
unit from the standard getopts unit:

pas2jni units/x86_64-linux/getopts.ppu

The following will create a file
.I getopts.java 
and a library file
.I pasgetopts.pas
unit from the standard getopts unit:

pas2jni -J. -O. -Lpasgetopts -units/x86_64-linux/getopts.ppu


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IP
.BR  java (1)
.BR  fpc (1)
.BR  javapp (1)
